Checklist Item
Are all components in contact with insulin or tissue sealed and sanitary?
Can tubing or parts be sterilized or replaced easily?
Is the mechanism protected from contamination (e.g., from dog hair, dirt)?
Are all parts either 3D-printable, purchasable, or easily DIY-able?
Do any parts require micron-scale tolerance or inaccessible tooling?
Can the system be assembled and maintained without a clean room?
Will it work at the required scale (e.g., mm vs cm)?
Is the delivery accurate at small volumes (e.g., <10µL)?
Does the actuator function predictably at miniature scale?
Does the entire assembly fit on Benny’s harness/body comfortably?
Is the weight distributed evenly and low enough for daily wear?
Are there any hard or sharp parts that could cause discomfort?
Does it hold enough insulin for a full day (or intended dose period)?
Can it reliably deliver insulin in precise, controlled amounts?
Is refilling easy and safe?
Can it be powered (battery, solar, passive?) for the required duration?
Is it controllable by phone or automated algorithm?
Does it fail safely in case of battery failure or glitch?
Is the cost of parts reasonable per unit and for replacement?
How often do parts need to be replaced?
Is maintenance realistic for daily or weekly use?
How is the pump refilled? Step by step.
How is it primed before use?
How is the dose administered and how frequently?
What does daily use look like (waking up to bedtime)?
What happens if Benny rolls on it, runs, or swims?
How do you dispose of or recycle parts after use? 

