


P0 – Inbox











P1 – Blockers & Fragile Points

These are things that must be resolved for anything else to proceed or stay stable. Includes:
Technical bottlenecks
Uncertainties that affect everything else
Infrastructure or toolchain issues
Fragile stuff that breaks the system
Ask: If I don’t do this, does everything else stall or fall apart?

Tasks:
Mk 3: Lumenelle 
Electrochemical push feasibility
Sketching
Assumptions
Design
Layout
Needs
Safety/Failsafes
Basic MOA Verification
Prototyping design
How do you create a sealed chamber
Reusability
How does the fucking needle work I never figured that out
We’re on Mk 4 Now (Lumi-2)
Mk4 really didn’t work. 
Let’s try Mk 5 
This is lu




Yeah lumenelle is kinda meh

 Hardware Checklist for This Setup - mk 2 lumi
1.0 mm ID silicone tubing (~15 cm)


Small Y-connector (Luer or barbed)


Sliding slug (PTFE, rubber plug, or trimmed IV stopper)
Basically we’ll do a fishing rod, coming out a y-connector


Luer-sealing cap, septum, or valve on refill port


Cannula or outlet tubing on the front leg


Leadscrew or SMA drive to push piston into slug

We’re gonna work with just a tubing, no reservoir, load up through a y connector, just gotta pick a push mechanism. Which, I still don’t really know, but maybe we run a wire filament and coil around a tiny motor. -shrug-
That’s pretty much it, simple setup. 
Coil on a tiny motor
Gotta figure out how to seal one end of a … idk more like a W connector, like two Ys, but we gotta take one and plug it up silicone and let the line out of it, could be miniscule. 

Issue - Not sanitary, the line being in the solution. 

Need another driver idea. -sigh-


P2 – Core Functionality
The essential features or systems that define your project. Not necessarily risky, but critical to deliver.
Backbone logic
Primary workflow
Minimum viable interface
Ask: If I stripped the project down to just the core, what has to work?


Tasks:

I wonder if I could get funding to do this stuff - like a go fund me or something 
[ ] Build syringe cartridge mount compatible with lead screw and motor housing
[ ] Finish Android control app prototype for real-time dose monitoring and override
[ ] Refine chelation buffer preparation for safety, sterility, and dose accuracy



P3 – High-Leverage Enhancements

Stuff that isn’t essential, but either increases usability, reduces future work, or offers big gains.
Smart defaults
Modularization
Time-saving automations
Clever reuse
Ask: What would save me time or increase impact if I did it now instead of later?

Tasks:
 Finalize tubing selection (stiff silicone or PU/Teflon tubing)
Develop least squares model to approximate digestion and insulin effect curves (use kernels with time lags)
[ ] Consider adding second nut or internal spring to lock/push syringe block from both ends
Order polyurethane or Teflon tubing for testing
Build sealed housing for syringe, pump, and electronics
Create housing to secure boards, batteries, and wiring
[ ] Set up logging and timestamped event tracking (injection, food, walk, etc)
[ ] Define rules for hypo forecasting and intervention (based on Libre trend and derivative)
[ ] Tune microbolus strategy (how to pulse to manage risk and sustain clearance)
[ ] [ ] Plan communication bridge between Libre data and insulin pump logic
You’d normally solve that with a boost converter (e.g., 3.7V → 5V) or a low dropout regulator, but that takes space and adds complexity.   4. Also, LiPos without protection circuits can catch fire if overcharged/discharged too much. So you also need:  A charger board (e.g., TP4056)  Ideally a protection circuit for undervoltage cutoff
Food insulin dose invariance: Check chatgpt make a little least squares model and see how it goes.




P4 – Ideas & Experiments

New, uncertain, or creative features. These are valuable for vision or future direction, but not needed for baseline success.
Prototypes of new interactions
Side features
Novel architecture attempts
Ask: Is this exploratory? Is it something I’d like to try but can defer?

Tasks:
Test real-time forecasting + auto-adjusting dose control
Oh eventually it would be cool to make a cheaper, open source libre.
Expand algorithm to multi-parameter model (food, insulin, glucose, activity)
Mark II: Advanced Wearable Pod
[ ] Design compact, Omnipod-style adhesive pod system
[ ] Draw and plan solenoid pump-based miniature system
[ ] Evaluate feasibility of spring-loaded needle insertion system
[ ] Explore microfluidics for pump precision
[ ] Consider upsizing Mark II solenoid pump if scale is an issue
[ ] Build test enclosure for autoclaving, sealing, and safety
[ ] Explore glove box or clean environment for sterile assembly
[ ] Experiment with ball-and-tube style simplified pumping concept
[ ] Design cute, small, smooth exterior housing to prevent snagging and improve wearability
[ ] Source sufficiently small syringes for compact pod designs
[ ] Experiment with fabricating custom micro-valves from silicone for precision flow control
Sterile Glove Box
Autoclave
Reduce system footprint to fully wearable adhesive pod
Smaller, swappable, chargeable battery
A hand drill
Try modifying the insulin kernel in the algorithm I wrote up for faster acting insulin (say 1 hour peaking)
Oh, how about an adhesive for a button for Benny that doesn't require shaving him as much, that's kinda sad and also, a little harder to scratch off maybe.
Garage biotech wishlist
I wonder if Hailey and I could get like a lab and live in it. Or idk, what the minimum space/safety/cleanliness I would need to like live and do lab stuff. 


P5 – Aesthetics & Polish

Making things look, sound, or feel good. UX details, microcopy, animations, style.
Visual design


Transitions


Refining the tone of prompts/messages


Layout consistency


Ask: Does this make the project feel better, but not work better?
Tasks:


Velcro-mount to existing dog harness for wearable use (buy velcro)



P6 – Rituals & Cleanup

Low-effort things that help clear your mind or keep your system healthy.
Code cleanup


Organizing notes


Writing README or internal docs


Refactoring low-priority stuff


Ask: Does this clear mental load or help future me without pushing anything forward directly?
Tasks:
Open source design + publish experimental results







