Reservoir + Winch


Eh... let's just think about this stupidly for a moment. 

We have a needle/cannula - basically copying omnipod. We're going to put in a rectangular reservoir to hold the insulin and then we push that reservoir with an external actuator. 

So, the exact mechanism of the actuator is secondary to the knowledge that it locks and can be removed and replaced. 



Got it 👍 — here’s a bullet-point list of decisions you’ve basically made / need to make, and next steps to prototype:


---

Design Decisions

Architecture:

Pod = simple sealed reservoir (v0: syringe-style cartridge).

External actuator (pen) = reusable lead screw actuator

Dock / undock model → no moving parts left in pod.


Reservoir choice (for v0):

Start with a “fat syringe” concept (3D print barrel or repurpose 1 mL TB syringe).

Plunger with seal at tip (O-ring, silicone stopper, or short tubing cap).

Outlet = stainless stub / Luer stub with check valve near outlet.

Adhesive/housing later; focus on dosing mechanics now.


Actuator (pen):

Lead screw driver with fixed nut in pen body.

Nose pushes plunger pad.

Docking = ¼-turn bayonet collar so pen body anchors to pod barrel.


Sterility & materials:

v0 = print barrels only for water test (not sterile).

Later = migrate to real syringe barrels or injection-molded COC/COP.

Diaphragm / rolling designs postponed until v1+.




---

Things To Do (Action List)

1. Choose lead screw pitch (0.5 mm/rev vs 1.0 mm/rev).

0.5 mm = finer precision, more turns.

1.0 mm = faster dosing, less precision.



2. Design & print 3 test barrels (IDs ~3 mm, 4.7 mm, 7 mm; stroke stops sized for ~0.3 mL capacity).


3. Design plunger seals:

Try O-rings, silicone caps, or cut tubing sections.

Chamfer bore for smoother entry.



4. Print docking collar:

Holds syringe barrel.

Provides bayonet face for pen to latch.



5. Build actuator pen:

Lead screw, nut, knob.

Detent wheel (12 or 24 notches).

Nose pusher pad (flat Delrin/nylon insert).



6. Integrate outlet:

Attach short stainless stub or Luer stub.

Plumb into low-crack check valve (bench only).



7. Bench test with water:

Gravimetric calibration → U/click.

Rebound/drip check (with valve).

Linearity check across stroke.

Bump test (dose, undock, jostle, confirm no leak).



8. Pick the sweet spot (bore ID + screw pitch + detents) that gives the precision & pod thickness you like.


9. Plan v1: swap barrel for a real syringe body or machined COC/COP; design adhesive pod housing; start thinking about sterile fill.
